
“...I am nothing so long as I shall think that I am something. Thus, after everything has been most carefully weighed, it must finally be established that this pronouncement “I am, I exist” is necessarily true every time I utter it or conceive it in my mind” -Descartes, Second Meditation

Course Overview
Much of Modern Philosophy involves humans and their relationship to the outside world. Therefore topics like consciousness, God, nature, causation, perception, and the human body are brought up quite frequently. More importantly, Modern Philosophers are interested in how these things have come to be and how we can know about them.    
The philosophers we will cover in this course were part of, or heavily influenced by, the scientific revolution of the early 17th century. We will mainly cover the following philosophers: Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant. Each of these philosophers were responsible for reworking the way we think about epistemology (philosophy of knowledge) and metaphysics (philosophy of existence/reality). Besides epistemology and metaphysics, Modern Philosophers were notably involved in ethics, logic, social philosophy, politics, aesthetics, language, philosophy of religion, and the philosophy of science.

Course Texts
Important: There are two required texts for this course. All course readings will either be from these texts or distributed separately (either online or in paper-form). Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that you have these two books:

A.) Readings In Modern Philosophy, Vol. 1. Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz and Associated Texts
Edited by Roger Ariew and Eric Watkins. 2000 - 322 pp. ISBN: 978-0-87220-534-5
B.) Readings In Modern Philosophy, Vol. 2. Locke, Berkeley, Hume and Associated Texts
Edited by Roger Ariew and Eric Watkins. 2000 - 464 pp. ISBN: 978-0-87220-532-1

Course Expectations
i. Expect to read and analyze. Readings will be assigned in preparation for our class discussions. We will also spend time reading and writing in-class, sometimes individually and sometimes as a group. Many of these readings are not typical. It may be difficult to find the purpose or reason for why the article was written. Therefore, we will often evaluate specific passages in order to ascertain its value to the larger article or concept at hand. This method will allow us to build philosophical as well as historical context. 

ii. Expect to write, edit, and rewrite. Much of your grade will be based upon how well you can restate and refute arguments. Being able to efficiently get your point across is the hardest aspect of writing philosophy. You will occasionally be asked to limit the amount of writing you do. For example, I may ask you to restate Hume’s theory of causation in 8 Sentences with 10 words or less. (Or something similar to this).

iii. Expect to challenge yourselves as well as me. If you disagree with my interpretation or explanation of a certain term, passage, or article please feel free to present your case.Expect to write, edit, and rewrite. Much of your grade will be based upon how well you can restate and refute arguments. Being able to efficiently get your point across is the hardest aspect of writing philosophy. You will occasionally be asked to limit the amount of writing you do. For example, I may ask you to restate Hume’s theory of causation in 8 Sentences with 10 words or less. (Or something similar to this). While you might find this tedious to begin with, it will prove extremely useful in the long run. It is amazing how much information you can convey when you write clearly.

Grades and Grading Policy:
	NOTE: It is my belief that philosophy-based writing improves one’s ability to write on the whole. Because of this, I will provide extensive comments for all your exams and many of your assignments. I will work to help you improve to the best of my ability. Please do not hesitate to send me a draft of your work or come to office hours for help.
	All homework, in-class assignments, and exams will constitute 400 total points. Homework and in-class assignments will be worth 30% of your grade. Homework will be assigned in the form of written responses. In-class assignments will be assigned as written assignments or group presentations.  Exams will feature short and long answer questions. There may also be multiple choice, fill in the blank, or matching questions. Exams will count for 70% of your grade. Exam 1, 2, and 3 will be worth 15%. The Final Exam will be worth 25%. (Exams = 280pts. Homework/Assignments = 120pts)
 All written work will be graded for clarity and conciseness. Poor spelling and grammar will result in lost points. (i.e. Proper usage of “there”, “their”, and “they’re” lie on one end of the spectrum, while “u” and “you” are especially egregious errors). 
	
A: 88-100%, B: 76-87%, C: 66-75%, D: 50-67%, F: <50%

Student Learning Outcomes:

Ability to compare, contrast, analyze and evaluate the views of the most influential Western philosophers and philosophical movements from a particular historical period----as found in primary or secondary sources----using rigorous philosophical methods.
Students will embody the qualities of an open-minded but critical thinker in the examination or formation of their philosophy.

Descartes: 1596-1650
Spinoza: 1632-1677
Locke: 1632-1704
Leibniz: 1646-1716
Berkeley: 1685-1753
Hume: 1711-1776
Kant: 1724-1804

Writing Workshop/Additional sessions:
	(Time and dates to be discussed) On selected Fridays. I will hold a writing workshop and discussion session in the CAS. These workshops will be held in addition to class and office hours. Occasionally there will be extra credit offered in conjunction with attending. (There will also be additional opportunities for extra credit.)
Time:                                       First Date/Planned Dates:


Additional Assistance: 
Anyone with a learning disability (dyslexia, test-taking anxiety, attention deficit, etc.) should see me immediately to discuss any special accommodations which need to be made. You deserve to have your learning needs accommodated! The Center for Academic Success and Special Services are both terrific resources.

Three Attempts Policy: 
Familiarize yourself with the new statewide policy regarding how many times you may attempt a class before you are ‘locked out’ of further attempts in the LACCD. See the Pierce College Schedule of Classes, the Counseling Center, or come see me for more info

Academic Freedom: 
Both students and faculty have a constitutionally protected right of freedom of expression, which deserves to be protected! For a fuller discussion, see me.

Paying for Books and Other College expenses: 
Call the Financial Aid office at (818) 719-6428 or go find them at the college services building. http://www.piercecollege.edu/officers/financial_aid
